feat(js): V6 documentation for Next.js (#5888)
aws-amplify/docs: src/fragments/lib-v1/ssr/nextjs/getting-started.mdx

When you use the Amplify library on the client-side of your Next.js app, you will
need to configure Amplify by calling the Amplify.configure as you would to use
Amplify in a single-page application.

<Callout>

**NOTE:** To use the Amplify library on the client side in a Next.js app, you will
need to set `ssr` to `true` when calling `Amplify.configure`.

</Callout>

```typescript
'use client';

import config from '@/aws-exports';
import { Amplify } from 'aws-amplify';

Amplify.configure(config, {
    ssr: true, // required when using Amplify with Next.js
});

export default function RootLayoutThatConfiguresAmplifyOnTheClient({
  children,
}: {
  children: React.ReactNode;
}) {
  return children;
}
```

<Callout>

**TIP:** To avoid repetitive calls to `Amplify.configure`, you can call it once
in a top-level client-side rendered layout component.

</Callout>

## Authentication

You can use the Amplify Auth category APIs to sign up and sign in your end users
on the client side. With setting `ssr: true` when calling `Amplify.configure`,
the Amplify library uses cookies to store tokens, which will be sent along with
HTTP requests to your Next.js app server.

> ### Manage Auth Session with The `middleware`

Reviewer: Nit, is `middleware` a more commonly used feature than Page Router or App Router, if not should we move App Router to this section?

Author: The middleware is available in both router mechanisms.

}

export const config = {
  matcher: [
    /*
     * Match all request paths except for the ones starting with:
     * - api (API routes)
     * - _next/static (static files)
     * - _next/image (image optimization files)
     * - favicon.ico (favicon file)
     */
    '/((?!api|_next/static|_next/image|favicon.ico|sign-in).*)',
  ],
};
```

In this example, if the incoming request is not associated with a valid user
session the request will be redirected to the `/sign-in` route.

<Callout>

**NOTE:** When calling `fetchAuthSession` with a `response` context, it will send the
refreshed tokens (if any) back to the client via the `Set-Cookie` header in the response.

</Callout>

## Using Amplify Category APIs as a Data Source on The Server Side

In general, to use Amplify APIs on the server in your Next.js app, you will
need to:

1. Import the API from the `/server` sub path.
2. Using the `runWithAmplifyServerContext` helper function exported from
`@aws-amplify/adapter-nextjs` to call the Amplify API in an isolated server context.

<Callout>

**NOTE:** A subset of Amplify APIs can now be called on the server side of a Next.js

> app. These APIs are exported from the `/server` sub paths. See

Reviewer: I think we should make clear that they *must* use those APIs from `/server` sub path, something like may be on line 147:

```
You **must** use these APIs instead of normal APIs not from the `/server` sub path for APIs run on server-side.
```

      nextServerContext: { cookies },
      operation: (contextSpec) => getCurrentUser(contextSpec),
    });

    return (
      <AuthFetchResult
        description="The API is called on the server side."
        data={currentUser}
      />
    );
  } catch (error) {
    console.error(error);
    return <p>Something went wrong...</p>;
  }
}
```

##### Static Rendering

Static rendering doesn’t require a user session, so you can specify the
`nextServerContext` parameter as `null`. This is useful for some use cases,
for example, when you are using the Storage API with guest access (if you have
enabled it in your backend).

```typescript
import { runWithAmplifyServerContext } from '@aws-amplify/adapter-nextjs';
import { getUrl } from 'aws-amplify/storage/server';
import Image from 'next/image';

// Re-render this page every 60 minutes
export const revalidate = 60 * 60; // in seconds

export default async function StaticallyRenderedPage() {
  try {
    const splashUrl = await runWithAmplifyServerContext({
        nextServerContext: null,
        operation: (contextSpec) =>
        getUrl(contextSpec, {
            key: 'splash.png',

>         }),

Reviewer: Nit: indention is a bit off here

    });
    
    return (
      <Image
        src={splashUrl.url.toString()}
        alt="Splash Image"
        width={500}
        height={500}
      />
    );
  } catch (error) {
    console.error(error);
    return <p>Something went wrong...</p>;
  }
}
```

<Callout>

**NOTE:** The URL returned by the `getUrl` API expires in the above example.
You may want to specify the `revalidate` parameter to rerender the page as

> required to ensure the URL gets regenerated.

Reviewer: Nice that the `revalidate` works! Does it work both Vercel and Amplify hosting?

Author: Yes I think so, as it's environment independent

## Prerequisites

> If you have not, please follow the [create application](/lib-v1/project-setup/create-application/q/platform/js/) guide to create your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have not done so already, please follow the [create application](/lib-v1/project-setup/create-application/q/platform/js/) guide to create your
```

Next.js project, and Amplify backend.

If you already have an existing Amplify backend, you can run the following command

> at the root of you project to integrate the Amplify backend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
at the root of you project to integrate with your existing backend.
```

```bash
amplify pull
```

## Configuration

### Configure Amplify for Server Side Usage

To enable Amplify library APIs usage on the server side, you will need to update
your `next.config.js`.

Import the Amplify configuration object from the `amplifyconfiguration.json` file

> that is generated by Amplify CLI, and use the `withAmplify` util functions to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that is generated by Amplify CLI and use the `withAmplify` utility function to
```

> update the configuration of your Next.js app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
update your Next.js app configuration.
```

> For example, the `next.config.js` may contain the following content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the `next.config.js` file may contain the following content.
```

```javascript
const { withAmplify } = require('@aws-amplify/adapter-nextjs/with-amplify');
const config = require('./src/amplifyconfiguration.json');

/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  // your Next.js app configuration
}

module.exports = withAmplify(nextConfig, config);
```

### Configure Amplify for Client Side Usage

When you use the Amplify library on the client-side of your Next.js app, you will

> need to configure Amplify by calling the Amplify.configure as you would use Amplify

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
need to configure Amplify by calling the Amplify.configure as you would to use Amplify
```

> in a client single-page application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in a single-page application.
```

<Callout>

**NOTE:** To use the Amplify library on the client side in a Next.js app, you will

> need to pass the `ssr` parameter with a true value to the call of `Amplify.configure`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
need to set `ssr` to true when calling `Amplify.configure`.
```

</Callout>

```typescript
'use client';

import config from '@/aws-exports';
import { Amplify } from 'aws-amplify';

Amplify.configure(
  config, {
    ssr: true, // required when using Amplify with Next.js

>   }

Reviewer 3: Intersting. We don't need to expand/merge the two objects together anymore?

Author: The `ssr` param has been moved into the second param of `Amplify.configure()`, the `LibraryOptions`.

> Amplify.configure(
>   config, {
>     ssr: true, // required when using Amplify with Next.js
>   }
> );

Reviewer 2: IMO this reads a little better. Also isn't `ssr` grouped under Auth now on the second param?

```suggestion
Amplify.configure(config, {
  ssr: true, // required when using Amplify with Next.js
});
```

Author: The decision was that `ssr` will reside in the `LibraryOptions` as "list it under the auth may indicate that only the Auth category supports SSR use cases".

export default function RootLayoutThatConfiguresAmplifyOnTheClient({
  children,
}: {
  children: React.ReactNode;
}) {
  return children;
}
```

<Callout>

**TIP:** To avoid repetitive calls to `Amplify.configure`, you can call it once
in a top-level client-side rendered layout component.

</Callout>

## Authentication

> You can use the Amplify Auth category APIs or the Amplify UI
> [Authenticator](https://ui.docs.amplify.aws/react/connected-components/authenticator)
> component to sign up and sign in your end users on the client side. With setting

Reviewer 2: The Authenticator isn't yet compatible with v6, should remove references to the UI throughout preview docs.

```suggestion
You can use the Amplify Auth category APIs to sign up and sign in your end users on the client side. By setting
```

> `ssr: true` when calling `Amplify.configure`, the Amplify library uses a cookie
> store to store tokens, and the cookies will be sent along with HTTP requests to
> your Next.js app server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`ssr: true` when calling `Amplify.configure`, the Amplify library uses cookies to store tokens which will be sent along with HTTP requests to
your Next.js app server.
```

import { runWithAmplifyServerContext } from '@aws-amplify/adapter-nextjs';
import { fetchAuthSession } from 'aws-amplify/auth/server';
import { NextRequest, NextResponse } from 'next/server';

export async function middleware(request: NextRequest) {
  const response = NextResponse.next();

  const authenticated = await runWithAmplifyServerContext({
    nextServerContext: { request, response },
    operation: async (contextSpec) => {
      try {
        const session = await fetchAuthSession(contextSpec, {});
        return session.tokens !== undefined;
      } catch (error) {
        console.log(error);
        return false;
      }
    },
  });

  if (authenticated) {
    return response;
  }

  return NextResponse.redirect(new URL('/sign-in', request.url));
}

export const config = {
  matcher: [
    /*
     * Match all request paths except for the ones starting with:
     * - api (API routes)
     * - _next/static (static files)
     * - _next/image (image optimization files)
     * - favicon.ico (favicon file)
     */
    '/((?!api|_next/static|_next/image|favicon.ico|sign-in).*)',
  ],
};
```

In this example, if the incoming request is not associated with a valid user

> session, the request will be redirected to the `/sign-in` route.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
session the request will be redirected to the `/sign-in` route.
```

<Callout>

**NOTE:** When calling `fetchAuthSession` with a `response` context, it will send the
refreshed tokens (if any) back to the client via the `Set-Cookie` header in the response.

</Callout>

> ## Use Amplify Category APIs as Data Source on The Server Side

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Using Amplify Category APIs as a Data Source on The Server Side
```

> In general, to use Amplify APIs on the server side of your Next.js app, you will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In general, to use Amplify APIs on the server in your Next.js app, you will
```

> need to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
need to:
```

1. Import the API from the `/server` sub path.

> 2. Using the `runWithAmplifyServerContext` helper function provided by

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Using the `runWithAmplifyServerContext` helper function exported from
```

</Callout>

### With Next.js App Router

#### In React Server Component

##### Dynamic Rendering

Dynamic rendering is based on a user session extracted from an incoming request.

```typescript
import { cookies } from 'next/headers';
import { runWithAmplifyServerContext } from '@aws-amplify/adapter-nextjs';
import { getCurrentUser } from '@aws-amplify/auth/server';

// This page always dynamically renders per request
export const dynamic = 'force-dynamic';

export default async function AuthGetCurrentUserServer() {
  try {
    const currentUser = await runWithAmplifyServerContext({
      nextServerContext: { cookies },
      operation: (contextSpec) => getCurrentUser(contextSpec),
    });

    return (
      <AuthFetchResult
        description="The API is called on the server side."
        data={currentUser}
      />
    );
  } catch (error) {
    console.error(error);
    return <p>Something went wrong...</p>;
  }
}
```

##### Static Rendering

Static rendering doesn’t require a user session, so you can specify the
`nextServerContext` parameter as `null`. This is useful for some use cases,
for example, when you are using the Storage API with guest access (if you have

> enabled it).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
enabled it in your backend).
```

```typescript
import { runWithAmplifyServerContext } from '@aws-amplify/adapter-nextjs';
import { getUrl } from 'aws-amplify/storage/server';
import Image from 'next/image';

// Re-render this page every 60 minutes
export const revalidate = 60 * 60; // in seconds

export default async function StaticallyRenderedPage() {
  try {
    const splashUrl = await runWithAmplifyServerContext({
        nextServerContext: null,
        operation: (contextSpec) =>
        getUrl(contextSpec, {
            key: 'splash.png',
        }),
    });
    
    return (
      <Image
        src={splashUrl.url.toString()}
        alt="Splash Image"
        width={500}
        height={500}
      />
    );
  } catch (error) {
    console.error(error);
    return <p>Something went wrong...</p>;
  }
}
```

<Callout>

> **NOTE:** the URL returned by the `getUrl` API expires in the above example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** The URL returned by the `getUrl` API expires in the above example.
```

> You may want to specify the `revalidate` to rerender the page to ensure the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may want to specify the `revalidate` parameter to rerender the page as required to ensure
```

URL gets regenerated.

</Callout>

#### In Route Handlers

Take implementing an API route that enables `GET /apis/get-current-user`.

```typescript
import { runWithAmplifyServerContext } from '@aws-amplify/adapter-nextjs';
import { getCurrentUser } from 'aws-amplify/auth/server';
import { cookies } from 'next/headers';
import { NextResponse } from 'next/server';

export async function GET() {
  const user = await runWithAmplifyServerContext({
    nextServerContext: { cookies },
    operation: (contextSpec) => getCurrentUser(contextSpec),
  });

  return NextResponse.json({ user });
}
```

> When you call `fetch('/apis/get-current-user')` it return a payload that contain

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you call `fetch('/apis/get-current-user')` it return a payload that contains
```

> the `user` data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the `user` data for the current user.
```

### With Next.js Pages Route

#### In `getServerSideProps`

> Take getting current user data extracted from the request, for passing the server
> side props into the `Page` component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example extracts current user data from the request and provides them to a server component via its props.
```

Author: Updated as "The following example extracts current user data from the request and provides
them to a page react component via its props."

server component is not a term with in the Pages Router.

```typescript
export const getServerSideProps: GetServerSideProps = async ({ req, res }) => {
  const currentUser = await runWithAmplifyServerContext({
    nextServerContext: { request: req, response: res },
    operation: (contextSpec) => getCurrentUser(contextSpec),
  });

  return { props: { currentUser }};
}
```

#### In `getStaticProps`

> Similar to the static rendering with the App Router, you can pass `null` as the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similar to static rendering with the App Router, you can pass `null` as the
```
